docs: add next-steps.md (#26)
Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts: next-steps.md

# Creating a standards compliant template and publishing it to one of our collections

This document explains the steps necessary to create, validate and publish a standards compliant template, as well as the template lifecycle and it's multiple stages. Each stage maps to a template status.

## Who can publish to a collection?

> Some collections are open to all contributors, while more curated collections are only accepting contributions from internal to Microsoft employees and specific partners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some collections are open to all contributors, while curated collections only accept contributions from internal to Microsoft employees and specific partners.
```

## What is a collection?

A collection is an entry point to discover, browse and initialize an [Azure Developer CLI](https://github.com/Azure/azure-dev) template. Examples of collection are

- [Awesome AZD](https://azure.github.io/awesome-azd/)
- [AI Apps Gallery](#)

and any other published list, meeting the criteria above

## Step 1: Creating a new template from scratch

> If you are creating a new template from scratch, we recommend you use our scaffolding mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are creating a new template from scratch, we recommend you use one of the starter templates to build your application template.
```

> To create a new template with all the necessary content, configuration and structure to successfully pass validation and qualify for curated collections, an author must use the scaffolding mechanism provided by executing  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new template with all the necessary content, configuration, and structure to successfully pass validation and qualify for curated collections, an author must use the scaffolding mechanism provided by running this command  
```

Reviewer: I prefer the term "starter template` over the term `scaffolding mechanism` because if feels like more plain text and less complicated.

`azd init –t [starter-template-name]` 

> Starter templates available today are 

Reviewer: Do we also want to list the IaC starters?

`azd init -t azd-starter-bicep`
`azd init -t azd-starter-terraform`

Author: Are those starters fully in compliance? I can ask the team to check and we can add them after confirmation.

### Initializing the template on your existing sample

You can also initialize the template for an existing code base. To do so, follow [this link](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/start-with-app-code)

## Step 2: Build your application

This stage maps to template status: `Template in progress`: the template has been generated, published to a repo, and the application is being developed. 

While in progress, the template team can adopt the following development guidelines:

Guideline type | Link
-- | --
Development Guidelines | [azd-template-artifacts/docs/development-guidelines/development-process.md at main · Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts/blob/main/docs/development-guidelines/development-process.md) 
Operational Guidelines | [azd-template-artifacts/docs/development-guidelines/operational-guidelines.md at main · Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts/blob/main/docs/development-guidelines/operational-guidelines.md) 

> Best practices per domain | [azd-template-artifacts/docs/development-guidelines/best-practices-per-domain.md at main · Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts/blob/main/docs/development-guidelines/best-practices-per-domain.md) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recommended practices per domain | [azd-template-artifacts/docs/development-guidelines/recommended-practices-per-domain.md at main · Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts/blob/main/docs/development-guidelines/best-practices-per-domain.md) 
```

I much prefer `recommended` over `best` for guidance since `best practices` can imply there’s only one solution or set of solutions and `recommended practices` is literally what _we_ are recommending in this context. :)

Structure recommendation Samples | [azd-template-artifacts/docs/structure-samples/structure-samples.md at main · Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts (github.com)](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts/blob/main/docs/structure-samples/structure-samples.md)

## Step 3: Validate the template

> This stage maps to template status: `Template ready`: The template has reached feature complete and has met the acceptance criteria defined here: [Definition of Done](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/azd-template-artifacts/blob/main/docs/development-guidelines/definition-of-done.md)

Reviewer: Nice, I like `Template ready` and linking to the def of done.

If you don’t see your template in the gallery in a reasonable time, reach out to the AI Standardization and AI Gallery team. (@Natalia Venditto , @Kristen Womack, @Grace Kulin ) 

If your template is still under active development, read the [Templates failing after publication](#templates-failing-after-publication) section below. 

### Status: template is invalid

If the checks are unsuccessful, the template is invalid and cannot be published. It will be marked as `INVALID` or `NON-CONFORMING`.

There are different levels of validity, and some checks are still under development. 

Please check the [table below](#levels-of-non-conformity-and-expected-action) to understand the levels of non-conformity. 

All items with errors and warnings will display error/warning information. Please follow the “How to fix” links for actionable steps to fix the issues and validate the template for publication. 

### Templates failing after publication

> The validation pipeline will be run regularly on all templates. 

Reviewer: How regularly?

Author: Good question. We don't have a decision on cadence, for now. It's something we need to define; this is why I left it open. It's likely it will run nightly after a while.

### Levels of non-conformity and expected action

Erroring Item | Level | Action
-- | -- | --
Readme.md errors | Moderate | Author receives a notification and unpublishing occurs within 7 days
Missing standard OSS files | Moderate | Author receives a notification and unpublishing occurs within 7 days
`azd up` fails | High | Author receives a notification and unpublishing occurs within 24 hours
`azd down` fails | Moderate | Author receives a notification and unpublishing occurs within 7 days
Missing .devcontainer config | Moderate | Author receives a notification and unpublishing occurs within 7 days
Missing pipeling configuration (azure-dev.yml) | Low | Author receives a notification. No unpublishing occurs
MI is enabled for all services | Moderate | Author receives a notification and unpublishing occurs within 7 days

## Give us feedback!

If you would like to give us feedback on the scaffolding, publishing or validation processes, or have documentation improvement suggestions, reach out! 

> 🚀 Happy coding!

Reviewer: 💖
